Okay,
guys.
And welcome back to another student.
Questions answered video there this questions from Lisa.
Now Lisa has already cleverly written some super duper code that she runs on a monthly
reports monthly,
Obviously,
so she conformed at the reports exactly as she wants them.
But the problem lies in this.
She has two files that she has to extract.
Data from one is the full file with all of the history,
and one is the latest months data.
So presumably today it's no August.
So it will be July's data and in each of these sheets there 50 odd different tabs for the
various cost centres that she has to do.
So she has to open the two files Extract Cost Centre,
one from the first file cost centre,
one from the second file run her magic macro that generates the report.
But when she wants to do,
if she wants to have the code,
given the option to open the two down the two workbooks that she needs to work on,
so that is the full file and the latest day to set number two is getting excel to export
the sheets.
Depending on the cost centre owner into one of two formats either Excel or PdF,
and the third part is automatically saving that in an appropriate directory structure.
So for argument's sake,
let's say you had a folder called 2017 and inside there you had folders for January through
December.
Currently,
it's August.
You'd automatically say that in July because that's the last state.
So they're the three questions and they're posted in here.
One thing to note the V.
Look at that.
Look up.
She's here has a VB name of shit.
V look up,
and I'm just gonna run me through this code.
All of my variables have declared up here,
and he told you what they are,
Coach fully rend,
and you can find it in here.
So let's run through that.
This is the room in order.
I'm just gonna step through question one private sub question one.
This is where we want to pick the to file.
So I'm just gonna hit their fate.
We're going to go to this subroutine file picker butchered the file.
Pick up your code is way at the bottom here,
but it's not used in this particular thing.
So here's the butchered version filed.
Pickup butchered.
Now what we have is we have a variable.
Say what was clicked because when you pick a file,
you either picker file and click OK or you click.
Council one is 01 is minus one.
So that is,
just capture,
whether it's zero or minus one there because we want to files.
Begin iterated through the file picker twice,
So it's just going to say for X equals Wanted to.
Here is the file picker with,
and it's a with end with a flattened get that'll on No con gate on one screen.
It's the application fold dialogue MSO filed.
I like file picker at which,
although you may know what not know where it's called When you see it,
you'll instantly know it so and their multi select false.
I'll do a lecture on this particular this file picker and add that in a week also or in the
next week just so I can talk you through what this does.
But basically we're gonna clear the filters on.
We're gonna add a filter to say Excel files only,
and I'm going to show you what that does in a second but name is the but name.
Got it.
And here we need to do a bit of clever work.
The title.
Now,
if X equals one,
that is,
we're on our first passed through this loop.
If X equals one,
then the title is going to say please select the all months files.
That's gonna prompt the user to pick the right file if it equals two and you can see that
this equals one.
So it's gonna if it equals to the title's gonna say Please select the latest months file
that's going to guide the user Now the initial file path You can just change your minds and
see uses Alan Desktop demo waas clicked show.
Now this is where it's going to pop up on.
That is what it looks like.
So I am an almost fell in the latest months file at these you just empty files with 10 tab
sets.
That's all they are.
And now you can see here that the book says open.
But when I click all months,
it says got it.
So Okay,
Now the thing is,
when you when you use the the file picker,
it doesn't automatically open the file.
You don't have to tell you what you want to do with it.
So now we're going to use that.
Was it clicked?
Very vaulters I was.
It clicked or melt.
If they didn't click anything.
We just got a message box saying you didn't pick anything,
so I'm just gonna step through that.
So obviously we did pick something So the file name equals a selected item.
What?
We clicked and they were going to do the work books open.
So there is my all months file.
Just open.
You can see.
I've just got 10 tabs on Do all it does is it says this is I think that it's just in a one
.
What?
Accept what file?
It's called him What cost centre it is.
So now what we're gonna do,
we're going to read the name of the file that we've just opened into Variable One called
all months on one called latest month that waits like it's easier to work on a little later
on.
So if x equals one all months is going to equal the active workbook name so they go or
months start Excel s end with exclude through again X equals two now,
So we're just going to step through and you can see this neighborhood.
Say,
select the latest months file.
Select the latest months file on.
Got it.
Okay.
From bomb,
bomb,
bomb bomb.
No,
on.
We've just captured the name of that that variable.
So that answers.
Question one.
That's how you can pick two fouls.
Question to now,
what we need to do with Question two is go through and pull the appropriate tabs from each
of those two files.
So eso that Lisa can run a code on it so instead straightforward this workbook activate.
That's a book within where the code lives.
My master equals this work,
but name again.
That's just so we can access it again easily.
Should look up.
Activate gives back to the sheet.
Hey,
to select.
Select.
No,
um,
that Aiken doing that cause that's,
uh,
that stuff code.
Okay,
right.
So here we go.
Here's a loop through all the cost centres.
Frank's equals.
Want to application worksheet function came to a range ace always conduce.
Can't Emily values we've got in a a subtract one for the titles,
so X equals 10 s.
O.
S.
We have 10 things I was gonna iterated 10 times.
My car center equals the actor sell value.
So that's gonna become cost centre.
1 may say format.
We're just going to use use this over here.
So my say format in the first instance is gonna be pdf.
Now what we're gonna do,
we say workbooks all months.
You remembered We captured the name of the old months Workbook to that variable dot cheats
my coughs center cost centre one in this instance.
Copy afterward.
Books,
My master.
This workbook Copy it after sheet one and then hit f eight and they go,
We get cost centre one now because both files have a sheet called Cough Centre.
One we're gonna need to rename it.
So I'm gonna do is rename it here and call it at the active she name Cost centre one Andi
All in this instance so f eight.
So let's become cost centre one.
Yep,
that's I have read that into the valuable my sheep one so we can access it easily later.
Never gonna do exactly the same for the other one.
So now we have cost centre.
One latest now saved file name.
This is where we're going to save it.
Lisa's code executes he at,
by the way,
where she generates a report.
So never going to go to the saved file name.
Now,
this is important,
because what we what we need to do is we're gonna have the date in the file name,
but we also we're gonna need to know where to save it.
You remember?
Talked about that direct directory structure.
If you had a fall to call 2017 and inside there you had January,
February,
March,
all that kind of stuff.
Well,
that's exactly what this is going to do.
So a couple of valuables in here,
my route So that's gonna be the first part of my directory.
See,
Ellen uses this sort demo backslash on.
Then we're gonna say month name month now,
because it's currently August.
So I'm guessing that you're not gonna get July's data until August.
So my month now minus one know if they're equals January,
Then my year and month is going to be called.
This is the rest of the path that's going to be cold slash 01 january slash and that is the
name of the folder that we can tag onto this part here that's going to file it in the
appropriate place.
So because it's August,
all of these air gonna just skip over.
And so we get here and it's gonna say are no less.
1 August less one is too light.
So therefore,
my year a month is gonna equal year now 2017 and that's going to give me the 2017 folder.
And then the rest of the directory path is going to be slash 07 July.
You'll see this in action in the second.
So there you go,
so we won't take what folder.
We should save it in.
There's a logical test to see if the last month that we reported almost December because if
it's December,
you don't want to call it 2017.
You want to call it the year before,
so we just have a slight adjustment here.
If it was December,
you subtract one from the So now we're gonna have,
um,
there we go.
Application display alerts equals false.
That's because when we delete these sheets when we're done with them,
we don't have these pop up saying issue.
So my say format is PD,
except my safe format equals PdF Then call save as pdf Now here at remember captured the
names of those two sheets sheet one and sheet to which of the things that leases just
remote code over.
We're going to select those.
And this is a butchered version of a recording Macro saving a pdf.
The only thing that I've changed is that and that and then this full path name,
which econo sees is what we've just built.
It's C users Ang Desktop Demo,
the 2017 bit,
which we built in the 07 July,
which we've built on the file name.
And then we're gonna tag on the end dot pdf exits a pdf,
it's F eight on in sub Delete that she delete that sheet ended Application display lights
turning back on ship.
Look up,
Select.
Go back here.
Move down a cell on.
Repeat.
I'm just gonna run that through to here.
So I think the next one was Excel Debug runs care sample.
Mom Got that?
Already?
Onda.
Exactly the same thing.
Recorded macro for save as Excel Andi Again you'll see from the recording macro version
below.
What I've changed.
I've called Sheet one and she took three.
Just name them and have used the same file sake file safe path and name that we built.
But this are among an attack dot XLs x on it because it's gonna be an excel file closed the
file I've just saved.
Okay.
And so we want to do is stop there for a second.
That's Lisa's report builder.
Let's just make sure I closed the all months file on the latest months file.
Now,
let me take you to the folder where these live.
I'll put the so you can download them.
Just have a play with.
But this is This is the 2017 folder.
What I've done is obsessive per directory structure.
Now put the number of the month in front.
That way they run sequentially.
If you name them January,
February,
March,
April,
they'll arrange themselves alphabetically,
which,
which isn't very intuitive.
So July These are the two files that we've just created.
The actual budget the actual July,
which we build dynamically at runtime cost centre.
One cost sensitives at once.
Pdf ones on excel file.
A woman do is just one that coat you can see what it does.
So the end result Better delete Those tuks are stopped halfway through tonight.
Yes.
Tune iss Andi,
look up!
Right.
Let me just run that code.
No,
firstly,
notice There's nothing up my sleeve.
There is nothing in 07 July at all,
so I'm just gonna hit the report.
I want the all months file.
Got it.
I want the latest months file.
It's gonna get bubble,
bobble bomb do its thing.
And at the end,
it's going to close those two newly opened workbooks.
Now,
obviously,
if you turn on the application screen update and then that's gonna run through in seconds
on back to that file.
So they go there.
We have all 10 reports created in just a few seconds under the appropriate format.
OK?
I hope that helps at the code is fully rammed.
Stepped through it.
If it's not clear from my descriptions,
that and hopefully it will make sense,
as always.
Any questions do let me know.
Have a great day and else that you in the next lecture